All right, we talked about TypeScript ES
modules, importing non-TypeScript things.
So if you're using a bundler like webpack,
or parcel, or snowpack,
or even Babel, which is not a bundler,
but it's a transpiler.
Depending on your Babel plugins or
your webpack loaders,
you may import things like file.png.
And if you don't do anything to support
this, you'll get errors like this.
It's saying, what is file.png?
I can't find a file.png.ts file for
you to import, what's going on here?
So what we can do to address this, so
here's our scenario.
You can have what's called
a global declaration file.
Let's see,
you can have a file called global.d.ts.
This is where you would put type
information, ambient type information.
We'll talk more about what this is later,
but
this is equivalent to the d.ts files
that are part of your compiled output.
global.d.ts is sort of a place
where you can do the highest
level adjustments to the way
TypeScript understands.
The types that ship with TypeScript,
so the way it treats certain things.
So I'm gonna grab this piece of code,
I'm gonna paste it in here,
we're gonna witness that it
actually solved the problem,
and then we'll look back and
we'll try to understand what it means.
Problem goes away.
In fact, if I click this,
I thought VS Code might load the image.
It's gonna take me to
the module declaration here.
And so what are we saying here?
Well, we're saying,
I have a certain type of module and
it's anything that ends
with the extension png.
And what I want you to
regard that module as
containing is it should have a string.
And you won't see this,
cuz in a module declaration like this,
we'll talk more about this, but
we're not exporting this, right?
You have to explicitly export things from
module declarations just like you have
to explicitly export things from modules.
So we're saying, okay,
I'm gonna create a comp thing,
we're not initializing it or anything,
and we could not in this context, but
then I want you to treat
it as a default export.
Maybe we could even do this
just to abbreviate it.
Nope, I knew there was a reason because
it has to be kind of value-ish for
us to export it, which is a little
bit of a screwy thing because
you're not allowed to
have values in this file.
You can have declarations that
sort of represent values, but
I absolutely cannot do this, not allowed.
This file can only contain types,
it's just types.
But in essence, what that lets us
do here is, if I hover over image,
look at that, it's a string,
it's a const declaration of a string.
And this is kind of how you might
see webpack using this, right?
I mean, maybe I haven't done this in
a while, but probably gives you some
way to get the URL of this image, which
includes the hash in the bundle name.
Or where it does cache busting and adds
little fingerprints like MT5 checksums
to images so that when they change,
you request them when appropriate.
So it creates the right URL for
you, and you'll obtain it here.
It might even, if it were really fancy,
give you dimensions of this image.
So I don't know maybe you could use that
information as you build your layout
out, right?
All of that is knowable at build time,
and so
it can assemble that information
together and feed it to you.
But this is just a little hack,
it's not really a hack, but
it's the adjustment that you
have to tell TypeScript about so
that it can understand when you're
importing things that are not code.
I mean, it could also be a JSON file.
There are other ways to handle JSON, but
it would be perfectly
fine to do it this way.
Anything that's in the webpack
world like a loader, where it has
the opportunity to transform things for
you, this would be super, super useful.
Why is it that whenever I create a module
declaration for png, for example, and
I try to jump to that file in my IDE,
it navigates to the module declaration and
not the actual file?
Because that's the way TypeScript
thinks about these things.
It treats this as a module,
it doesn't know it's an image.
It has no idea that it's an image.
It doesn't even know that it's a file.
What if you did this?
We're gonna do something really weird.
Well, that's odd.
What if we did this?
Just make it not png,
you can make it HTML.
And then up here, we can say, okay.
Possible illegal module characters.
We'll see if the escapes
actually work here.
Or we do this, Something like that.
All right, so we're saying if
a module begins with http://,
our default export treat default export
as if it's the return type
of the fetch function.
And look, we go back here,
and look at that,
it's a promise that
resolves to a response.
So this clearly is not a file in my
project, right, I'm giving it a URL.
This is super, super unusual,
but I make this point.
I'm showing you this example because the
name of the module here could be anything,
it doesn't necessarily
have to be a local file.
And so all that's safe for
TypeScript to do is to say,
all right, see,
there it did try to jump to the URL.
It just took me here, and it's saying,
you want the type, the declaration,
where this module exists?
This is the best I've got for you,
this is my source of truth for
understanding the types of this module.